Create getting started docs page (#495)
airbnb/react-sketchapp: docs/guides/getting-started.md

# Getting Started

You can create a `react-sketchapp` project with `skpm`, by cloning a ready-made [example](../examples.md), or by manually setting up the `package.json` and `manifest.json` scripts (advanced usage).

## Environment Setup

You will need npm, Node and Sketch.

- Code editor e.g. [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/), [Atom](https://atom.io/)
- Node.js & `npm` – [install with Homebrew](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#macos) (or install with [Node Version Manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#nvm))
- [Sketch](https://www.sketch.com/)
  - requires macOS

## Creating a Project With Skpm

**Replace** `my-app` with your desired project name:

### Installation

```bash

> npm i -g skpm

Author: 👍 I like to avoid global installs where possible, would be nice to have alternative docs, but if someone cares about that, chances are they know how to do `npm install --save skpm` and `npx skpm`, or copy the `package.json`, etc manually. I agree it's better to be explicit that it's a global install.

skpm create my-app --template=airbnb/react-sketchapp # template is a GitHub repo
cd my-app
```

### Setup

You can now open `my-app` in your code editor of choice. You will see a `src` folder with a `manifest.json` file and Sketch entrypoint (e.g. `my-command.js`). If you wish to rename `my-command.js`, you can do so and update the file name in `script` in `manifest.json`

Example modifications (assuming we want to rename the entrypoint file to `main.js` and don't want to have sub-commands):

`src/manifest.json`

```diff
  "commands": [
    {
-      "name": "my-command",
+      "name": "My App Name: Sketch Components"
-      "identifier": "my-command-identifier",
+      "identifier": "main",
-      "script": "./my-command.js"
+      "script": "./main.js"
    }
  ],
  "menu": {
-    "title": "my-app",
-    "items": [
-      "my-command-identifier"
-    ]
+    "isRoot": true,
+    "items": [
+      "main"
+    ]
+  }
  }
```

### Rendering to Sketch

To render your app to Sketch, open the Sketch application, create a new blank document, then go to your Terminal and run:

```bash
// Make sure you've already done `cd my-app`
npm run render
```

> If you forget to create a new document, you may get an error saying `null is not an object`. You can handle this case with the instructions below:

Author: 👍 Is this not worth creating a new Sketch document by default in the render function? If no documents are found.

e.g. https://github.com/airbnb/react-sketchapp/blob/9ed55801f242d954e8618da343310ec22a293ce1/src/utils/getDocument.ts#L3-L8

->

```js
 export const getDocumentDataFromContext = (ctx: SketchContext): SketchDocumentData => {
  try {
    return ( 
     ctx.document || 
     (ctx.actionContext || {}).document || 
     NSDocumentController.sharedDocumentController().currentDocument() 
   ).documentData(); 
  } catch(err) {
    if (sketch.documents.length === 0) {
      return new sketch.Document().sketchObject.documentData();
    }
  }

```

> If you forget to create a new document, you may get an error saying `null is not an object`. You can handle this case with the instructions below:

Reviewer: No I don't think it should do something that it wasn't explicitly told not to. If we have a nice error message with some suggestion to fix the issue, it will be a lot more actionable than if we sometimes create a new doc but not always

> If you forget to create a new document, you may get an error saying `null is not an object`. You can handle this case with the instructions below:

Author: Should I open up a PR for:

```js
 export const getDocumentDataFromContext = (ctx: SketchContext): SketchDocumentData => {
  try {
    return ( 
     ctx.document || 
     (ctx.actionContext || {}).document || 
     NSDocumentController.sharedDocumentController().currentDocument() 
   ).documentData(); 
  } catch(err) {
    if (err.includes('null is not an object')) {
      throw new Error('No open document found. Please try opening/creating a document, or you could use \'render(<App />, sketch.getSelectedDocument() || new sketch.Document())\'');
    }
  }
```

> If you forget to create a new document, you may get an error saying `null is not an object`. You can handle this case with the instructions below:

Reviewer: Let's avoid the plugin sketch API for now (because it might be a pain on nodejs and not working on sketch <49).

But I think it can be just
```js
export const getDocumentDataFromContext = (ctx: SketchContext): SketchDocumentData => {
  let document = ctx.document || 
     (ctx.actionContext || {}).document || 
     NSDocumentController.sharedDocumentController().currentDocument()
  if (!document || !document.documentData) {
    throw new Error('No open document found.\nTry opening/creating a document before calling `render`.\n\nFor more information, check out http://airbnb.io/react-sketchapp/docs/guides/rendering.html');
  }
}
```

> ### Rendering to Multiple Pages or New Documents

Reviewer: I think that could be in a guide of their own - maybe called `Rendering` or something

Author: Created `rendering.md`

`src/my-command.js` (or whatever file you may have renamed it to).

```js
import React from 'react';
import { render } from 'react-sketchapp';

import { render, Document, Page } from 'react-sketchapp';

const App = () => (
  <Document>
    <Page name="Page 1">
      <Artboard>
        <Text>Hello World!</Text>
      </Artboard>
    </Page>
    <Page name="Page 2">
      <Artboard>
        <Text>Hello World, again!</Text>
      </Artboard>
    </Page>
  </Document>
);

export default () => {
  const documents = sketch.getDocuments();

>   const document =
>     Array.isArray(documents) && documents.length >= 1 // if there are any open documents
>       ? documents[0] // select the last active document
>       : new sketch.Document(); // or create a new document

Reviewer: how about
```suggestion
  const document = sketch.getSelectedDocument() // get the current document
    || new sketch.Document(); // or create a new document
```

  render(<App />, document);
};
```

Here are some examples of retrieving our desired target document:

**Get selected document**

```js
const sketch = require('sketch');

export default () => {
  const document = sketch.getSelectedDocument();

  render(<App />, document);
};
```

**Get document by name**

```js

> const sketch = require('sketch');
> 
> const getDocumentByName = name => {
>   return (sketch.getDocuments() || []).find(doc => {
>     const nativeDoc = doc.sketchObject || {};
>     // (unstable/native API)
>     const docName = nativeDoc.displayName ? nativeDoc.displayName() : '';
>     if (docName.trim() === name) {
>       return doc;
>     }
>   });
> };

Reviewer: Let's not show examples of the native api
```suggestion
const sketch = require('sketch');
const path = require('sketch');

const getDocumentByName = name => {
  return (sketch.getDocuments() || []).find(doc => {
    return doc.path && path.basename(doc.path, '.sketch') === name
  });
};
```
